welcome to uncommon knowledge I'm Peter
Robinson nominated by President Reagan
and confirmed in the Senate by a vote of
98 to 0 Antonin Scalia has since 1986
served as an Associate Justice of the
Supreme Court of the United States
Justice Scalia's most recent book
written with Brian garner reading law
the interpretation of legal texts on
behalf of the Federalist Society and
uncommon knowledge Mr Justice Scalia
welcome thank you Peter glad to be here
segment one reading law quote we seek a
return to the oldest and most common
sensical interpretive principle in their
full context words mean what they
conveyed to reasonable people at the
time they were written close quote
Mr Justice in this two hundred and
thirty sixth year of our Republic why
should it be necessary to devote more
than four hundred pages to a common
sensical principle it's a very good
question well the reason as explained in
the first part of the book is that we've
sort of gone off the rails that nowadays
especially with regard to the
Constitution the accepted view and the
view stated by my court repeatedly is
that the words don't necessarily mean
what they were understood to mean at the
time but can be given new meaning it's
up to the court to say what they what
they mean today they mean today what
they ought to mean today and it's up to
the court to to decide that that's new
and and but you know it all comes under
the the title the living Constitution
living Constitution we'll get to that
phrase but again in a gated you you make
that clear again and again in reading
law it's like picking up cosmic
background radiation from some distant
cataclysmic event a couple quotations
since the mid 20th century there's been
a breakdown in the transmission of our
heritage again over the past 50 years
especially we've
the judiciary take control of territory
that ought to be settled legislatively
once again some commentators have
claimed since the mid 20th century that
all language is ambiguous fifty years
ago something terrible happened what was
it what went wrong why did it happen
then Wow that we don't try to explain
why it why it happened then it did
happen then the time that that
philosophy took over is about the time
of the Warren Court there had been you
know hints of it earlier I suppose but
it was never the accepted philosophy of
the judiciary the living Constitution
notion the notion that words are all
words are ambiguous it's really up to
the court to give them meaning is much
more attractive to academics than it is
to judges and it's really the Academy
that that brought all of this into the
prominence and into the majority status
that it now and now enjoys so the court
is a lagging the court lags the Academy
yeah I think probably I think probably I
think it brought probably there were law
professors that that were espousing
these views before before the courts
adopted them reading law once again the
purpose of issed
did I pronounce that one correctly
reserved expressive purpose of estar
right the purpose of is they have to
have some word for it right I made it up
the purpose of fist derives the meaning
of text from purpose and not purpose
from the meaning of the text that's
related to the living Constitution or
that's distinct that's that's distinct
look there there there are two things
that the book urges lawyers to be and
judges to be number one is textualist
okay the point you just made is a point
urged by someone who is not at all a
textualist he doesn't want to be bound
by the text at all and he just looks at
what what was the purpose of this text
and once he figures out you know it any
purpose can be identified at an infinite
number of levels at top of which is you
know do good and avoid evil and
depending on what level of generality
you pick you can make a very narrow
statute into a very broad statute
because the broad purpose that it seeks
is this and therefore even though the
text does not specifically address that
particular question the question ought
to be answered that way because of this
text that's a person who is not a
textualist he's a purpose of aesthetics
to list though and you say yes we're
bound by the text you can give the text
the meaning it bore at the time or you
can say and indeed many of many of the
Living constitutionalists they say we
are all textualist now yeah they all
start with the text but but they don't
end with it they don't end with it they
and they don't give it the meaning it
had when the people adopted at that
that's especially important when you're
dealing with the Constitution because
the Constitution takes out of the
democratic process certain certain
particular items and you're you're
tampering with democracy when you remove
items that the people really never agree
to remove you know the death penalty is
a good example
I've sat with four colleagues who
thought it was unconstitutional even
though it's it's absolutely clear that
the American people never ever voted to
make the death penalty and
unconstitutional when the eighth
amendment was adopted that corner usual
punishments Clause the death penalty was
the only penalty for a felony it was the
definition of a felony every state had
the death penalty so nobody could could
plausibly claim that the American people
said no state shall have the death
penalty but I've sat with four
colleagues who have taken that position
and say the death penalty is
unconstitutional because it ought to be
because it nowadays we ought to consider
it quote unusual that distorts democracy
it ought to be up to the American people
to take something out of democracy to
take it away from you know the
Constitution doesn't require you to have
the death penalty you think it's a bad
idea persuade your fellow citizens and
abolish it as many states have done but
you know to say that the American people
rendered it beyond the pale of
democracies is just absurd segment two
canons reading law presents 57 canons
I'm quoting properly regarded canons are
not rules of interpretation in any
strict sense but presumptions about what
and intelligently produced text conveys
would you explain that well again most
of it is calm say let's take most of
them are so or many of them are so well
that they have Latin names one of them
is inclusio unius exclusio alterius
when you include one thing you and you
exclude another imply it that's a fancy
name for the negative implication for
example when you when you say a free
credit of free loans for people with
good credit the implication is if you
don't have good credit you don't get a
free loan right
that's conclusioun iou's namely people
with good credit exclusio alterius
implicitly excludes others those who
don't have good credit
so in disgust with 57 canons and a
number of the reviewers make a point
that I have a feeling you'll be able to
deal with just fine but they make the
point that the canons represent extra
textual assumptions that you bring to
the text so Richard post or Judge Posner
says he quotes you here I close up there
reading law the related statute Canon is
not this is you to tell you and your
co-author the related statute Canon is
not to tell the truth based upon a
realistic assumption assessment of what
the legislature actually meant the Canon
is based upon a realistic assessment of
what the legislature ought to have meant
those are your words and then Judge
Posner says in other words now in
quoting his review judges should impose
right reason on legislators judges
should in short clean up after the
legislators no I wouldn't say that with
with respect look at what we say early
on that that some of the canons such as
inclusio unius are just a common sense
they are just the way people understand
language when others of them however
have some what should I say social or
legal backing that there's a legal
reason for them and the one we just
talked about that you should interpret
statutes to be harmonious is is one of
those you don't want to make a hash out
of the corpus juris and that's always
been the rule you don't interpret
statutes to contradict each other if you
can avoid it now if you want to call
that going beyond the text I don't think
so i think that's anybody who an access
statute should
know that ancient rule and therefore
should know that that's the way what
they write will be interpreted if they
leave it vague it will be interpreted to
be be conformable to prior statutes so
so um you've got Judge Posner and
Stanley fish in the New York Times
Stanley fish is a layman of course not a
judge and you got little Robinson here
it's clear they're trying to trying to
find the distinction it's clear that you
bring certain that you bring a knowledge
of the English language to the text
right you state and all the reviewers
agree that words have no inherent
meeting themselves you bring a knowledge
of the English language to the text
right you can call that extra-textual
which is exactly so that's sure so so
Posner says well wait a minute
he says you bring a knowledge of English
to the text he says you bring 57 canons
to the text well that's what judge
Justice Scalia wants to bring the text
Justice Breyer may want to bring a few
other things to the text how do you draw
the distinction between what is the
assumptions that are in the service of
the text and those that open the door
wide to judicial interference or or Fiat
some of them as I say are just standard
manners in which people understand
language okay right got it and that's
one whole category that the others can't
complain about other ones are so
traditional they have been around so
long then anybody who who's a legislator
and writes a statute ought to know that
that's the way it will be interpreted by
the people and by the courts an example
of that is the proposition that when you
have a listing at the end of the thing
at the end of a passage which says
something like dogs cats gerbils parrots
parakeets and other animals that
generalized term will not be interpreted
to mean elephants it will be interpreted
to mean other animals of the
namely domestic animals pets that's
that's an ancient principle it's almost
a question of legal grammar it's a cow
it's almost legal grammar right I can't
say that that every english-speaking
person would understand that
automatically but every english-speaking
lawyer would certainly understand that
that's how courts have interpreted a
phrase of that sort for hundreds of
years
got it segment three errors reading law
presents not only fifty-seven canons by
the way I should stay for the audit for
the television audience and and the
audience here Stanley fish they review
in the New York Times almost in spite of
himself called the book compellingly
readable I by the way I agree the prose
is just terrific
almost the most fun in my judgment are
the thirteen falsities exposed yeah I
was what lets go K so let's take a
couple of those one of the thirteen
falsities quote the false notion that
words should be strictly construed
strict constructionism as opposed to
fair reading textualism is not a
doctrine to be taken seriously
close quote whereupon I googled Antonin
Scalia plus strict constructionism and
you know what a lot of people think you
are a straight-up obstruction wisdom it
is not a doctrine to became serious
explain it explain that you should not
interpret language strictly or nor
should you interpret it sloppily should
interpret it reasonably if if you were
strict constructionist give a bad name
to serious textualist s-- who say
language should be interpreted
reasonably the first amendment is the
example I always give if if you were a
strict constructionist you would have to
believe that Congress could censor
handwritten letters because all the
First Amendment is a conservation
abridging the freedom of speech or of
the press a handwritten letter is not
speech it's not the press so it can be
censored right no I mean a proper
understanding the First Amendment is
speech press it means they there's a
figure of speech call
old oh I see a sale where the part
stands for the whole I guess right I
know they might be
Synecdoche cynically god that's
brilliant like Raya did you have a
Jesuit education
I did I did not but I grew up in upstate
New York with the English teacher just
said said think of Schenectady ah I said
yeah it is it says all right so
synecdoche synecdoche and I I think
speech and press are synecdoche standing
for the conveyance of ideas expression
whether it's done by semaphore by Morse
code by burning a flag so long as your
own flag
you're free to express yourself all
right another falsity again quoting
reading law the false notion that
committee reports and floor speeches are
worthwhile aids in statutory
construction close quote
Mr Justice Scalia it's not a house how
much time you have no interest and
probing the intent of a legislature well
yes and I know you you will rarely find
a court that does not say the object of
a construction is to discern the intent
of the legislature they say that all the
time the Charis tatl said that I think
it's wrong at least it's wrong in in in
in a democracy we are as as the famous
line from the Massachusetts Constitution
says a government of laws not of men we
are governed by the laws that Congress
enacts not by the unexpressed intent of
whoever wrote them and if they meant up
when they said down that's their problem
I frankly if the legislative history is
utterly clear about that too bad we're
governed by the laws so that's point one
you shouldn't be worried about their
intent hey we should be weren't worried
about what was what was promulgated to
the people that's what they're governed
by but secondly even if you were
interested in legislative intent
are you going to find that in
legislative history for one thing in a
multi-member body it's very hard to
understand what the intent was beyond
the words that they all voted on other
than that they could have voted for them
for very different reasons just because
one or two of them say oh I think the
language does this the rest may not have
felt the same way so the notion that you
can pluck statements from a couple of
legislators or even from a committee
report which is usually written by some
teenagers and and and not even members
of the federal society we're lucky not
yeah not even not even not even very
often not even read by the committee
much less read by the whole house much
less less read by the other house the
the notion that that somehow is
reflective of the intent of the whole
Congress and of the president who had to
sign the thing I mean it truly is them
is the last the last surviving fiction
in America in American law you'd be a
lot of fictions you know this is a
fiction it's you have to engage in a
willing suspension of disbelief to to
accept this one last falsity quote the
false notion that the living
Constitution is an exception to the rule
that legal texts must be given the
meaning they bore when adopted close
quote the argument of course is that the
wiser the framers were wise men they
understood that they were constructing a
document for the ages so they left a
little play in the joints they permitted
this thing to breathe to expand to adapt
and the body charged with executing
these expansions and adaptions is the
judiciary ya know they they they knew
that there would be need for change and
that's why they had an amendment
provision as some constitutions did not
this Constitution could be amended and
if you if you listen to John Marshall in
the in the bank in the United States
case
what enables the application of the
constitution to new situations that
can't be envisioned by the framers is
not the ability of the courts to change
the meaning of the Constitution but
rather when the courts interpret
provisions of the Constitution they
ought as John Marshall said to give
those provisions and expansive meaning
because they have to they have to be
used in situations that cannot possibly
be envisioned now that's that's the way
in which the Constitution is expandable
and flexible not not by by being
amendable through the courts as the
political and legal culture involves
such that we amend the Constitution much
too seldom ah we you mean the people
different to the formal amount immediate
Court does it all the time well well I'm
some time to ask you know if I would
amend any provision of the Constitution
and actually the one provision I would
have meant is the amendment provision
it's it's very very difficult to amend
it to infinite ly more difficult than it
was when when that provision was written
you know it takes a two-thirds vote of
each house to propose the amendment and
then it has to be approved by
three-quarters of the states I figured
it out once if you took a bare majority
in the smallest states by in in
population something less than 2% of the
population could prevent a
constitutional amendment that's you know
that's probably too severe and certainly
much worse than it was you know the the
disparity in population between
California and Rhode Island is so so
much greater than what existed at the
framing so III would amend that segment
for how it should be done and how it
should not how it should not Roe versus
Wade to quotations reading law in Roe
versus Wade the Supreme Court declared
unconstitutional state statute
that in no way contradicted any specific
provision of the Constitution close
quote second quotation justice blackmun
1973 opinion itself the right of privacy
whether it be founded in the Fourteenth
Amendments concept of personal liberty
or as the district court determined in
the ninth amendments reservation of
Rights to the people is broad enough to
encompass a woman's decision whether or
not to terminate her pregnancy close
quote so justice Blackmun writing for
the majority takes pains to ground the
court's decision well I suppose you
because in the fourteenth and the ninth
or if you read his his the opinion
carefully it's the fourteenth or the
ninth you get to choose and he's wrong
to say the fourteenth or he said he say
the right of privacy whether whether it
be founded in the 14th Amendment's
concept of personal liberty as we feel
it is or as the district court
determined in the ninth amendments
reservation of Rights to the people well
once again this is one aspect that the
book addresses when you have terms in
the Constitution that are not ambiguous
in the sense that they can mean one of
two things but rather are general so
that they could cover a lot of things
you should interpret them not to cover
the things that the people who adopted
that provision did not thought they did
not think they covered and you know call
an unusual punishments is one of course
those words could cover a lot of things
but it's clear from the history of the
times that nobody thought that it
included the death penalty nobody and
it's the same thing with this this right
of abortion whether it's founded in the
fourteenth or I mean God the Ninth
Amendment forget about it nobody ever
thought that we just look at history you
know all the states had prohibitions on
abortion for hundreds of years so when
was it that the American people made the
decision
to forbid a state from adopting such
they never did they never did the court
the court made it up and in you know
we're not talking about the the right or
wrong of the substantive result
I mean I'm quite you know neutral on
that the point is who should decide
should it be a question on abortion
whether people try to persuade each
other that there ought to be there
oughtn't to be and put it to a vote
that's fine that's you know if you want
the right to abortion create it the way
most rights are created in it in a
democracy you persuade your fellow
citizens pass a law you want to polish
the death penalty the same thing but
what all of that Democratic choice is
taken away when the court is enabled to
give vague provisions such as due
process of law equal protection of the
laws meanings that they that they did
not have when they were adopted how it
should be done in 2008 case of District
of Columbia versus Heller in which you
wrote the decision upholding the
individual right to present to possess
firearms a decision that runs to more
than 60 pages of very close textual and
historical analysis reading law quote
the Second Amendment did not say that
the people shall have the right to keep
and bear arms or even that quote the
government shall not prevent the people
from keeping and bearing arms but rather
that the right of the people to keep and
bear arms shall not be infringed this
triggered historical inquiry so how does
the history inform the reading of what
strikes a layman like me is a very
tricky text that preparatory Clause
comma well that passage you read
triggered I said it triggered historical
inquiry because the second event refers
to it as though it as though it were a
pre-existing right it didn't say the
people shall have the right or even the
government shall not take away always
but rather the right of the people to
keep in there as though it was a
pre-existing right
triggered historical injury in Korea
that takes you back to the English Bill
of Rights which sure enough contained
the right to keep and bear arms as for
the Prolog occur they're going to know
what the Prolog is you know a
well-regulated militia being necessary
for the defense of a free state comma
the right of the people to keep and bear
Arms shall not be in French again if you
studied history what's the connection
between not taking away arms the right
of the people came out and the militia
was it seems very strange but historical
inquiry shows you what the connection is
the way the Stuart Kings the Catholic
Kings
destroyed the militia which was supposed
to be all of the male citizens trained
to arms the way they destroyed the
militia was not to by abolishing it they
just took away the arms of all of those
who opposed the Catholic Kings and so
there is a connection a well Reagan
mission being necessary for the defense
of a free state of militia consisting of
all of the body of the citizenry come
the right of the people to keep their
homes you'll not be infringed it makes
thorough sense if you understand the
history and without the history you ask
yourself what is this guarantee of of
the state's ability to have a militia
what is it doing in the Bill of Rights
for pete's sake why you know pointment
some other portion of the Constitution
segment 5 forward and afterward in
reading law your views are definite for
that matter the prose itself just
conveys a sense of solidity but you
include a foreword by Judge Frank
Easterbrook that tosses a banana peel
right into the middle of the argument
quote quoting Frank Easterbrook's for
word the significance of an expression
depends on how the interpretive
community alive at the time of the
adoption understood those words the
older the text the more distant that
interpretive community from our own at
some point the difference becomes so
great that the meaning is no longer
recoverable close quote so the
Constitution of the United States
it's slowly fading away before our very
eyes well I can't disagree with I would
have written that I don't know why Frank
want that but but it's it's implanted
him to write the foreword your stuff
it's it's undead well yeah Frank's
alright he knows what he's doing and and
he is as much of a textualist as I am
what he said there is entirely true I
mean when you can't recover the
historical meaning of course you can't
do tests you ilysm but that's not the
case with respect to the provision of
the Constitution that I'm talking about
we know what the laws were at the time
the 17th the the the Bill of Rights was
adopted in 1791 we knew what we know
what the what the laws of the various
states were and those laws were
unchanged which shows that those people
did not think the death penalty was was
forbidden you make actually you make a
contrary point in reading law that when
you first were elevated the High Court
amicus briefs that included historical
background were relatively unusual and
now they have become standard so would
it almost be right to argue that the
history is coming more sharply into
focus rather than fading away is that
fair that's fair I'm just making that up
if it's fair it's fair all right I
wouldn't have made the point but it's
not fair I mean the history is either
there or it's not there if as Frank said
you can't retrieve it anymore yes you
you you it's an obstacle to giving the
text its original meaning I guess you
have to fall back on gee I don't know
what it meant originally although I'm
not sure what you would say is therefore
it means what I think it ought to mean
but anyway yeah it's a true statement
but it's it's not a criticism of proper
historical inquiry where the history has
not been lost and it hasn't been lost
for all right most of this stuff that's
judge Easterbrook's forward hears from
your own afterward quote reading law
some will argue that a widespread
adoption of the techniques we advocate
in this book would be to turn back the
clock but we do not propose that all
decisions made and doctrine adopted in
the past half century or so of
unrestrained
to tional improvisation be set aside we
must bow to starry decisis close quote
Mr Justice Scalia it's not a matter of
turning back the clock it's a matter of
restoring the original meaning of the
Constitution you put four four four
hundred pages you show you you have four
hundred pages of Mozart and you end with
two and half pages of Frank's genius you
take it all that say it ain't so
say it ain't so okay so counsel appears
before us in the case and he's he's
arguing he's about to argue that a
statute enacted by Congress is
unconstitutional but before he gets in
our way
wait wait counsel now do you think we
have the power to ignore a statute
enacted by Congress simply because in
our view it's unconstitutional he says
oh yes your honor you know
Marbury vs. Madison I know I know Marple
but was it right let's rethink that
you can't run a legal system that way
reinvent the wheel every time you have a
new case you have to accept you know
water over the dam it's uh and that's
what starry decisis is all about it's a
sorry decisis is Latin for water over
the dam that's what it is Latin for
right so but but then you provide these
criteria for deciding whether sorry
decisis should rule and the criteria are
just as vague as as the criteria that
Judge Posner might impose and reading
the looking for legislative intent has
it been is it settled law have people
arranged their lives around it and so
forth this is all in the afterword you
know number one the the number of items
to which this vagueness applies is much
less than the item of the number of
items to which judge Posner's vagueness
applies I mean you know the world the
world is his oyster any any statute can
be interpreted to do what it ought to do
but secondly I don't think those
criteria that I set forth there are so
vague I I set forth three that I employ
number one how how wrong was it is it
you know was it blatantly what some of
them are maliciously wrong they must
have known they were lying
okay that's Leslie plus he's on the
books for over a half a century before
brown comes along what that's just
that's just one of my credit all right
all right
all right number two has it been
generally accepted uh you know when I
was in law school the incorporation
doctrine was still was still
controversial whether the 14th amendment
had the effect of applying the Bill of
Rights to the states it didn't use to
apply to the states but it's been
accepted for half a century now and it's
it's no big deal
number three compare that with Roe vs.
Wade right which was controversial when
adopted and remained so and and and
apply the first criterion to Roe versus
Wade you know how bad was it even the
people that liked the outcome
acknowledged that it was a lousy opinion
third factor uh and for me the most
important really can can I can I can I
work with this case as a lawyer and and
again the best example is Roe versus
Wade I don't know how to do Roe vs. Wade
I'm supposed to say does this particular
state statute place an undue burden on
the woman's constitutional right how do
I know where her place is not I'm a
lawyer I would normally run to the law
books and see you know what's another
what do you know for two hundred years
no burden was an undue burden you could
forbid it this is a policy judgment I
mean you have a statute that requires so
many doctors so many nurses so many so
much expensive equipment and it raises
the price of abortion and the issue for
my court will be does this place an
undue burden why don't you know what am
I supposed to do with that as a lawyer
you think we're going to talk about
Lauren I'm gonna talk about law we're
gonna say here somewhere I don't think
that's an undue you think it's an
underwear
I mean five hands it is four it is and
I'm not going to do that but you know
those are my three criteria I don't
think they're very vague at all and when
I find that they strike out on all three
I I don't I don't adhere it in the prior
case final question before we go to
questions from the audience
reading law quote originalism does not
always provide an easy answer or even a
clear one originalism is not perfect but
it is more certain than any other
criterion and it is not too late to
restore a strong sense of judicial
fidelity to text close quote
so here's the question this book for
that matter your entire career
represents a sustained determined effort
at restoration are you optimistic how's
the product coming that's an unfair
question especially after last term
i dissented in in the last last six
cases announced last term so I don't
know you just I don't know that I'm
optimistic I the fight is worth fighting
win or lose you know Frodo and the Lord
of the Rings and so I'm going to IO
soldier look at the problem is that the
other approach is enormous ly seductive
even for these for the average citizen
it's seductive to think that the
Constitution means what it oughta mean
it's a living Constitution anything I
care passionately about it's right there
in the Constitution you know people used
to say when they don't like something
that's going on they say there ought to
be a law they used to be a comic strip
that you know there ought to be a law
about people playing boom boxes in the
park and stuff like that people don't
say that anymore they say it's
unconstitutional if they really feel
passionately about it uh and it is even
more seductive to judges it's a
wonderful thing to to have a
constitutional case and you're always
happy with the result because it means
exactly what you think it ought to mean
let me ask that last question in a
slightly different way but it's the same
question I was talking to a friend here
at Stanford Law School who said when
Antonin Scalia was nominated to the
Supreme Court in 1986 in the legal
Academy at prestigious law schools
originalism was considered dead and gone
and now if you don't have some pretty
good original ist's on your faculty your
law school is not to be taken seriously
and that is overwhelmingly the work of
one man now that I put that put that me
hope give me hope Peter stay with me
stay up stay in my chambers all right we
have some questions but we have some
questions from the only made some
progress I will I will say what word
with this is a federal
design the subject I didn't exist
questions from the audience is there a
negative effect on the judiciary do of
the modern confirmation process you were
confirmed 98 to zip those days are over
aren't they I think they are over my
explanation for why they're over is that
I told you all this stuff really begins
with a warrant Court or at least that's
when this this living Constitution
philosophy sort of takes over and I
think it took the American people a
while to figure out what was going on
maybe 30 years but once they have
figured out that the Supreme Court is
essentially rewriting the Constitution
term by term
the old criteria for appointing and
confirming judges no no longer apply I
mean it's finding get somebody who's a
good lawyer that's very nice and
somebody with a judicial disposition
wonderful you know somebody who you know
is an honest man so forth that's all
very good but the most important thing
is what kind of a new constitution will
this person right will he put in the
things that I like and take in the take
out the things I don't like and that's
what's been going on
in in recent confirmation process he's
at least where where where where the
Senate is not overwhelmingly in the
control the you know the filibuster
proof control of one party
you know judge so-and-so do you think
there's a right to whatever is abortion
whatever you hear hate or love you don't
well I think it's there and my
constituents think it's there and I'm
not going to put you on the Supreme
that's what's going on and it ought to
go on much as I hate that process I
prefer to the alternative which is just
letting the supreme court without any
political control we write the
constitution term by term if they're
going to be doing that I would like some
popular control even if it's in this
this Byzantine fashion that
that amounts to a mini Constitutional
Convention every time we appoint a new
justice
so the corruption of the process stems
from the high bench not from the Senate
Judiciary Committee yes they're there
they are doing what what you would
expect them to do and what I say they
ought to do if that's if that's what the
Supreme Court is doing that's what the
Senate ought to do much as I dislike the
whole thing how much of the living
Constitution is due to the feckless
unwillingness of Congress to tackle
difficult issues no I I don't think
that's a good excuse Oh Congress hasn't
hasn't done it so we must do it where
where where do you get that from
none of it zero don't blame it on the
Congress it's it's not the job of judges
to do those things which the people's
representatives have for whatever reason
decided not to do even when we have as
we even when their fakeless in when we
had as we had a couple of years ago a
sitting Speaker of the House referring
to a 2000 and some page document we'll
have to we'll have to pass this to find
out what's in it yeah I don't think it's
up to the court - all right you're not a
safety net Oh God
certainly not does natural law have a
place in interpreting the Constitution
no look at it says what it says I apply
United States law I don't apply natural
law God applies natural law the only now
natural law has a place in writing law
when you're writing a constitution or
when you're writing a statute you should
not put in that anything that you know
or believe is contrary to natural law
but once it's in there it says what it
says and if it forces me to do something
that's against my conscience of course I
have to resign from the bench but the
mere fact that it doesn't conform to
natural law with it does not cause me to
be doing anything evil
that's no basis for me saying oh the
statute doesn't conform to natural law
so I'll apply the natural law now that's
the only role natural law has under the
Constitution is you mentioned that
mentioned the ninth amendment and one of
you earlier question I did well justice
White's mention yeah justice Blackmun
did well you know as he remember says
the the enumeration here in of certain
rights shall not be deemed to deny or
disparage other rights that are retained
by the people and academia in recent
years having finally yielded to the
reality that substantive due process
which is has been the basis for Roe
versus Wade in a lot of the living
Constitution nonsense having finally
conceded that doesn't make any sense
they're looking for other other ways to
get there in one of the ways is the
ninth amendment which is a source of
unenumerated rights it isn't a source of
unenumerated rights I apply the ninth
amendment I apply it rigorously I do not
deny or disparage other rights maybe
there is a right to abortion that that's
not my line of territory you're free to
argue to the legislature that there is
but I know that it's not one of the
rights containing the Bill of Rights and
therefore not not one of the rights that
I enforce what the 9th amendment was was
the expression of the framers belief in
the natural law G us because we have a
few rights here doesn't mean that there
aren't any others and if you try to take
them away we'll be back on the
barricades that's that's what it meant
procedure and evidence were once the
province of precedent case law common
law more recently they've been codified
question would it make sense to codify
federal rules of statutory
interpretation should we take reading
law and make it statute
I wouldn't like to do it because I am
loath to to think that it's up to
Congress to tell us how to decide cases
I mean suppose they decide to say you
shall not use logic or suppose they say
you shall seek to achieve the purpose
that Congress had in mind no no I'm a
judge we're our own branch and our
responsibility is precisely to decide
how to interpret statutes I'm not in
favor of having that written in the
statute last question question
appropriate to Silicon Valley take it
ignore it anyway you know you know I
have to I know some of the students here
at Stanford Law School who are in this
audience and they spend three years
cowering before the faculty and I've
seen smiles break out a number of times
and I know exactly why because you over
and over again have given these people
the back of your hand it's refreshing to
my young friends if the First
Amendment's text refers only to speech
and press you've explained that it
doesn't quite but how can you expand it
to cover the internet without causing
all kinds of problems the Internet is I
told you it doesn't mean just speech and
press it means expression the Internet
is one form of expression the notion
that an originalist cannot cannot handle
these new phenomena radio television
cameras of course you you you envision
the the need to take the principles that
you applied to to face-to-face speech
and apply that to any any any new
phenomena that come along but that
doesn't count that that is not the
living Constitution that's just applying
the principles to two new phenomena
where where the shoe pinches is where
you're dealing with phenomena that did
exist at the time the death penalty
abortion homosexual sodomy to treat them
differently today from the way they were
treated earlier
that's a different question and that's
basically what the the principle of
originalism sets its face against you as
to phenomena that existed at the time
the American people took out of the
democratic process only what they
understood to be taking out of it and
nothing more
Antonin Scalia Associate Justice of the
Supreme Court and the haven't talked
about Brian like co-author and the
co-author with Brian Williams all right
man he's the the foremost philologist in
the United States editor Black's Law
Dictionary and portions of the book are
identifiably Brian Garner's for pete's
sake there's a whole appendix on the use
of dictionaries you don't think you
don't think I wrote that and and their
system
he said he say he says one of the things
you have to know I didn't know this he
said one of the things you have to know
about dictionaries is what is the
principle on which they decide what
order to put their definitions in and he
cites a an opinion of my good friend and
colleague Steve Breyer which made a
mistake because it used the Oxford
English Dictionary it used the first
meaning as as the most common meaning
and that is not the system the oxford
english dictionary uses they put the
oldest meaning first and then come up to
the new I I would have made the same
mistake to tell you the truth but that
whole thing is Bryant is very useful it
also has you know what what are the
definitive dictionaries of of each era
because you want to use a dictionary
from the time you don't want to use
today's meaning for you know for the
1700s and he's good on all that stuff
okay let me hold this up the camera
holding your time
Brian Gorder down at the bottom Brian
garner down above and seated next to me
associate justice at the Supreme Court
and co-author with Brian Gardner of
reading law Antonin Scalia thank you
very much mr. justice covered thank you